docs/docs/integrations/mqtt.md, before:

---
id: mqtt
title: MQTT
---

These are the MQTT messages generated by Frigate. The default topic_prefix is `frigate`, but can be changed in the config file.

### `frigate/available`

Designed to be used as an availability topic with Home Assistant. Possible message are:
"online": published when frigate is running (on startup)
"offline": published right before frigate stops

### `frigate/restart`

Causes frigate to exit. Docker should be configured to automatically restart the container on exit.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/<object_name>`

Publishes the count of objects for the camera for use as a sensor in Home Assistant.

### `frigate/<zone_name>/<object_name>`

Publishes the count of objects for the zone for use as a sensor in Home Assistant.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/<object_name>/snapshot`

Publishes a jpeg encoded frame of the detected object type. When the object is no longer detected, the highest confidence image is published or the original image
is published again.

The height and crop of snapshots can be configured in the config.

### `frigate/events`

Message published for each changed event. The first message is published when the tracked object is no longer marked as a false_positive. When frigate finds a better snapshot of the tracked object or when a zone change occurs, it will publish a message with the same id. When the event ends, a final message is published with `end_time` set.

```json
{
  "type": "update", // new, update, end
  "before": {
    "id": "1607123955.475377-mxklsc",
    "camera": "front_door",
    "frame_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "snapshot_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "label": "person",
    "top_score": 0.958984375,
    "false_positive": false,
    "start_time": 1607123955.475377,
    "end_time": null,
    "score": 0.7890625,
    "box": [424, 500, 536, 712],
    "area": 23744,
    "region": [264, 450, 667, 853],
    "current_zones": ["driveway"],
    "entered_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "thumbnail": null,
    "has_snapshot": false,
    "has_clip": false,
    "stationary": false, // whether or not the object is considered stationary
    "motionless_count": 0, // number of frames the object has been motionless
    "position_changes": 2 // number of times the object has moved from a stationary position
  },
  "after": {
    "id": "1607123955.475377-mxklsc",
    "camera": "front_door",
    "frame_time": 1607123962.082975,
    "snapshot_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "label": "person",
    "top_score": 0.958984375,
    "false_positive": false,
    "start_time": 1607123955.475377,
    "end_time": null,
    "score": 0.87890625,
    "box": [432, 496, 544, 854],
    "area": 40096,
    "region": [218, 440, 693, 915],
    "current_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "entered_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "thumbnail": null,
    "has_snapshot": false,
    "has_clip": false,
    "stationary": false, // whether or not the object is considered stationary
    "motionless_count": 0, // number of frames the object has been motionless
    "position_changes": 2 // number of times the object has changed position
  }
}
```

### `frigate/stats`

Same data available at `/api/stats` published at a configurable interval.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/detect/set`

Topic to turn detection for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/detect/state`

Topic with current state of detection for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/recordings/set`

Topic to turn recordings for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/recordings/state`

Topic with current state of recordings for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/snapshots/set`

Topic to turn snapshots for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/snapshots/state`

Topic with current state of snapshots for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.

Commit message:

MQTT support for `all` objects for each camera & zone (#2908)

docs/docs/integrations/mqtt.md, after:

---
id: mqtt
title: MQTT
---

These are the MQTT messages generated by Frigate. The default topic_prefix is `frigate`, but can be changed in the config file.

### `frigate/available`

Designed to be used as an availability topic with Home Assistant. Possible message are:
"online": published when frigate is running (on startup)
"offline": published right before frigate stops

### `frigate/restart`

Causes frigate to exit. Docker should be configured to automatically restart the container on exit.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/<object_name>`

Publishes the count of objects for the camera for use as a sensor in Home Assistant.
`all` can be used as the object_name for the count of all objects for the camera.

### `frigate/<zone_name>/<object_name>`

Publishes the count of objects for the zone for use as a sensor in Home Assistant.
`all` can be used as the object_name for the count of all objects for the zone.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/<object_name>/snapshot`

Publishes a jpeg encoded frame of the detected object type. When the object is no longer detected, the highest confidence image is published or the original image
is published again.

The height and crop of snapshots can be configured in the config.

### `frigate/events`

Message published for each changed event. The first message is published when the tracked object is no longer marked as a false_positive. When frigate finds a better snapshot of the tracked object or when a zone change occurs, it will publish a message with the same id. When the event ends, a final message is published with `end_time` set.

```json
{
  "type": "update", // new, update, end
  "before": {
    "id": "1607123955.475377-mxklsc",
    "camera": "front_door",
    "frame_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "snapshot_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "label": "person",
    "top_score": 0.958984375,
    "false_positive": false,
    "start_time": 1607123955.475377,
    "end_time": null,
    "score": 0.7890625,
    "box": [424, 500, 536, 712],
    "area": 23744,
    "region": [264, 450, 667, 853],
    "current_zones": ["driveway"],
    "entered_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "thumbnail": null,
    "has_snapshot": false,
    "has_clip": false,
    "stationary": false, // whether or not the object is considered stationary
    "motionless_count": 0, // number of frames the object has been motionless
    "position_changes": 2 // number of times the object has moved from a stationary position
  },
  "after": {
    "id": "1607123955.475377-mxklsc",
    "camera": "front_door",
    "frame_time": 1607123962.082975,
    "snapshot_time": 1607123961.837752,
    "label": "person",
    "top_score": 0.958984375,
    "false_positive": false,
    "start_time": 1607123955.475377,
    "end_time": null,
    "score": 0.87890625,
    "box": [432, 496, 544, 854],
    "area": 40096,
    "region": [218, 440, 693, 915],
    "current_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "entered_zones": ["yard", "driveway"],
    "thumbnail": null,
    "has_snapshot": false,
    "has_clip": false,
    "stationary": false, // whether or not the object is considered stationary
    "motionless_count": 0, // number of frames the object has been motionless
    "position_changes": 2 // number of times the object has changed position
  }
}
```

### `frigate/stats`

Same data available at `/api/stats` published at a configurable interval.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/detect/set`

Topic to turn detection for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/detect/state`

Topic with current state of detection for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/recordings/set`

Topic to turn recordings for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/recordings/state`

Topic with current state of recordings for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/snapshots/set`

Topic to turn snapshots for a camera on and off. Expected values are `ON` and `OFF`.

### `frigate/<camera_name>/snapshots/state`

Topic with current state of snapshots for a camera. Published values are `ON` and `OFF`.
