docs/docs/guides/ha_network_storage.md, before:

---
id: ha_network_storage
title: Home Assistant network storage
---

As of Home Assistant Core 2023.6, Network Mounted Storage is supported for addons.

## Setting Up Remote Storage For Frigate

### Prerequisites

- HA Core 2023.6 or newer is installed
- Running HA OS 10.2 or newer OR Running Supervised with latest os-agent installed (this is required for supervised install)

### Initial Setup

1. Stop the Frigate addon
2. Update your [config](configuration/index.md) so the DB is stored in the /config directory by adding:

```yaml
database:
  path: /config/frigate.db
```

### Move current data

Keeping the current data is optional, but the data will need to be moved regardless so the share can be created successfully.

#### If you want to keep the current data

1. Move the frigate.db, frigate.db-shm, frigate.db-wal files to the /config directory
2. Rename the /media/frigate folder to /media/frigate_tmp

#### If you don't want to keep the current data

1. Delete the /media/frigate folder and all of its contents

### Create the media share

1. Go to **Settings -> System -> Storage -> Add Network Storage**
2. Name the share `frigate` (this is required)
3. Choose type `media`
4. Fill out the additional required info for your particular NAS
5. Connect
6. Move files from `/media/frigate_tmp` to `/media/frigate` if they were kept in previous step
7. Start the Frigate addon

Commit message:

Move database and config from homeassistant /config to addon /config (#16337)
* Move database and config from homeassistant /config to addon /config

* Re-implement config migration for the add-on

* Align some terms

* Improve function name

* Use local variables

* Add model.path migration

* Fix homeassistant config path

* Ensure migration scripts run before go2rtc and frigate

* Migrate all files I know

* Add ffmpeg.path migration

* Update docker/main/rootfs/etc/s6-overlay/s6-rc.d/prepare/run

Co-authored-by: Josh Hawkins <32435876+hawkeye217@users.noreply.github.com>

* Improve some variable names and organization

* Update docs to reflect addon config dir

* Update live.md with /addon_configs

* Move addon config section to configuration doc

* Align several terminologies and improve text

* Fix webrtc example config title

* Capitalize Add-on in more places

* Improve specific add-on config dir docs

* Align bash and python scripts to prefer config.yml over config.yaml

* Support config.json in migration shell scripts

* Change docs to reflect config.yml is preferred over config.yaml

* If previous config was yaml, migrate to yaml

* Fix typo in edgetpu.md

* Fix formatting of Python files

* Remove HailoRT Beta add-on variant from docs

* Add migration for labelmap and certs

* Fix variable name

* Fix new_config_file var unset

* Fix addon config directories table

* Improve db migration to avoid migrating files like .db.bak

* Fix echo location

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Hawkins <32435876+hawkeye217@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/docs/guides/ha_network_storage.md, after:

---
id: ha_network_storage
title: Home Assistant network storage
---

As of Home Assistant 2023.6, Network Mounted Storage is supported for Add-ons.

## Setting Up Remote Storage For Frigate

### Prerequisites

- Home Assistant 2023.6 or newer is installed
- Running Home Assistant Operating System 10.2 or newer OR Running Supervised with latest os-agent installed (this is required for supervised install)

### Initial Setup

1. Stop the Frigate Add-on

### Move current data

Keeping the current data is optional, but the data will need to be moved regardless so the share can be created successfully.

#### If you want to keep the current data

1. Move the frigate.db, frigate.db-shm, frigate.db-wal files to the /config directory
2. Rename the /media/frigate folder to /media/frigate_tmp

#### If you don't want to keep the current data

1. Delete the /media/frigate folder and all of its contents

### Create the media share

1. Go to **Settings -> System -> Storage -> Add Network Storage**
2. Name the share `frigate` (this is required)
3. Choose type `media`
4. Fill out the additional required info for your particular NAS
5. Connect
6. Move files from `/media/frigate_tmp` to `/media/frigate` if they were kept in previous step
7. Start the Frigate Add-on
